


In exercise 2d, we are given the following stuctured objects 

Object B: A square MxM

Object C: A 1xM rectangle

Object D: An Mx1 rectangle

An input Image I with NxN pixels 

It is provided information that the dilation of I with structuring element B is equivalent to the dilation of I with the structuring of element D followed by the dilation of this image with 
structuring element C.

For any given max operation of E elements, there are E-1 objects which must be compared, as the first object can be assumed to be the max, and then each successive object can be compared to the first.
Similarly, a dilation (assuming 8-neighbor connectivity) with a structuring object of MxM would have (M^2) objects involved. If the initial pixel  is 
assumed to be the max, this leads to M^2-1 comparisons/operations required for each pixel. The last step would be to factor in the total number of pixels. In this case, there are N^2 pixels for the image I. 

Therefore, the total amount of operations required for the dilation of I with structuring element B is 
N^2 *(M^2-1)



Similarly, when applying a dilation of I with structuring element D followed by a dilation with stucturing element C, we can individually calculate the total operations of each. 
As mentioned before, for any given max operation of E elements, there are E-1 objects which must be compared, the first object can be assumed to be the maximum, and then each successive object can be compared to the first.
Similarly, a dilation (assuming 8-neighbor connectivity) with a structuring object of Mx1 would have (M) objects involved. If the initial pixel  is assumed to be the max, this leads to M-1 comparisons. This can then be multiplied by the number of pixels in the image which is N^2. 


And so, the total number of operations for the dilation of Image I with object D is N^2(M-1), however the number of operations required for dilation with structuring object c must be taken into account.

Object C has the same structure as object D (1xM vs Mx1), it is just that various columns are considered as opposed to rows.

This in turn will lead to N^2(M-1) comparisons, and thus when added to the total operations from the dilation with object d, the result is 2*N^2(M-1) 